---
Title :	FUZZ FASTER U FOOL
Date :	2025-11-01
Tags :	[CYBER-TOOLS,CYBERSECURITY]
Author :	SAURO MAYAKA
Platform :	TRYHACKME
categories: [Web Enumeration,Fuzzing,Penetration Testing]
reading_time: "6 minutes"
---

FFUF is a short form of Fuzz Faster U Fool.
This is a tool that is used of web enumeration, fuzzing and directory brute-forcing. It comes installed in security oriented Linux distributions. i.e. Kali and Parrot. To get more knowledge on distributions read more on REPOLOGY
In order to use FFUF efficiently you need WORDLISTS. A collection of wordlists that is popularly used is SECLISTS
Seclists is installed in most Linux distributions but in case its missing, here is the installation guide.

Basics
In order to understand the options and familiarize yourself with the tool, you can use the help option to go through the various options that the tool uses
The help command is ffuf -h
At minimum there are 2 required options.
-w : for the path to the wordlist to be used
-u : for the specific URL that the wordlist is being executed on.
-FUZZ : The default keyword FUZZ is used to tell ffuf where the wordlist entries will be injected
Example command:
ffuf -u http://ip-addres/FUZZ -w wordlist
Another word can be used instead of FUZZ
ffuz -u http://ip-address/x-word -w wordlist:x-word

Finding pages and directories.
Using large generic wordlists with irrelevant file extensions is no efficient. Instead we can use the assumption that the main page is called (index.extension). This will allow us to use the filename index with a number of file extensions. The that will help us know what programming language has been used in the web application.
Command Example:
ffuf -u http://ip-address/indexFUZZ -w wordlist
From the obtained extensions, we can now use generic words to enumerate further.
Directory fuzzing are not dependent on the platform, so it i advisable to start with it because it only needs just a wordlist to be supplied.

Using Filters.
Enumeration scans and actions can result to a large chunk of output, but filters can be used to narrow down the contents of the output of the enumeration commands.
Some of the filters that can be used include:
-fc (filter code) - it is used to filter the status codes of the output obtained.
-mc (match code) - is used to match status codes in the generated output.
-ml Match amount of lines in response  
-mr  Match regexp  
-ms Match HTTP response size  
-mw  Match amount of words in response
-fc  Filter HTTP status codes from response. Comma separated list of codes and ranges
-fl  Filter by amount of lines in response. Comma separated list of line counts and ranges  
-fr Filter regexp  
-fs  Filter HTTP response size. Comma separated list of sizes and ranges  
-fw Filter by amount of words in response. Comma separated list of word counts and ranges`
The filters help in gaining customized output from commands and at the same time they help us understand the system better from the status codes that are sent in response to the command provided.

Fuzzing Parameters.
Sometime when you get a page or API endpoint and you have no idea what to do, the appropriate path to follow is fuzzing. Fuzzing might help us to get a vulnerable parameter that could lead to file inclusion, path disclosure, XSS, SQL Injection, and even Code Injection. By the fact that ffuf allows you to put the keyword anywhere, we can use it to fuzz the parameters.
Example:
ffuf -u 'http://ip-address/sqli-labs/Less-1/?FUZZ=1' -c -w /usr/share/seclists/Discovery/Web-Content/raft-medium-words-lowercase.txt -fw 39
If a parameter is obtained at this level then, then the same approach can be used to fuzz for values.
Fuzzing for values, will require either a command that will be piped into the ffuf command or use a -w to supply a wordlist that will be used for the fuzzing.
In this scenario, we obtained the parameter that takes integer values to be id
Fuzzing for the values that can be supplied to the id parameter
Example :
seq 0 255 | ffuf -u http://ip-address/sqli-labs/Less-1/?id=FUZZ -c -w - -fw 33

Another application, where we can employ ffuf is the brute-force of authentication pages.
Example:
ffuf -u http://ip-address/sqli-labs/Less-11/ -c -w /usr/share/seclists/Passwords/Leaked-Databases/hak5.txt -X POST -d 'uname=Dummy&passwd=FUZZ&submit=Submit' -fs 1435 -H 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded'
Here we have to use the POST method (specified with -X) and to give the POST data (with -d) where we include the FUZZ keyword in place of the password.
We also have to specify a custom header -H 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' because ffuf doesn't set this content-type header automatically as curl does
